I think the days are gone where the guys
say you know honey I'm going over to
Jeff's house to go play cards now it's
honey I'm headed over to just my house
to go play Halo there's a little
different because it's more like a sport
and that you're you know yes the game is
there but it's basically helping you
compete against your friends
simply get the rage against each other
this crazy combat world always fresh
your opponents are always new and they
are always adapting super dicking we
played at every single night for one
year downtown we actually kind of went
out on a limb with Halo to design each
one of our multiplayer maps so they fit
within the single player settings so you
could look at any of our maps and you
could say wait I know that location
popular teen gametypes is capture the
flag or on almost every halo one map we
had two bases that were pretty identical
and at the beginning of Halo 2 we were
trying to think of different ways or we
can make her match more asymmetrical
it's fun to play as the attacker and
then it's fun to play as the defender
you can never completely defend the base
maybe there's two guys defending but
there's three ways in you always having
to make these choices so the attackers
start on the beach and we give the
attack or a warthog and two ghosts and
we don't give the defender anything
except the rocket launcher
and the beach is separated from the main
complex by the seawall so it gives the
attackers a home and then the defenders
also have their base which is their home
and then the vehicles have to come in
through this one gate launcher guy
usually likes to get into position to
attack that day
what is the heads-up display let's say
I'm in a firefight and I'm firing my
weapon and I'm taking damnit the
indicator turns red so I can instantly
see if my teammates are in trouble and
if one of them was to die my friend
there is dead he shows up with a big red
X over his head now there's been many
times I've been in a game and I'll be
following my buddy's right in to go get
the flag and then all of a sudden I'll
see all these red x's appear on my
screen I'll go
you know maybe now is not a good time to
run through that door everybody likes to
go to their buddy's house and you know
order pizza and get something to drink
and wipe the Cheetos off your hands I'm
to having each other and calling them
names what we wanted to do is take that
whole situation
and bring it to Xbox Live and so we
tried to be able to call the virtual
colleges we tried something completely
new which is this party system where you
and your friends kind of combine
together online and you can tell from
game to game to game the game and
newland new friends will always be
together
really amazing to get online for the
first time when there were bunch of
people online and just press the button
that said I want to play go find me some
other people want to play and choose a
game type freak rule and just stick me
in it as best you can
and to have that process happen in like
five seconds really you can get close to
somebody in a game and talk to them and
only that person can hear you proximity
voice is gonna make us cards there's
nothing like running up to somebody and
killing with energy sword and then two
minutes later they kill you and then
they're standing over your body saying
you're just an anonymous nobody unless
we build ways for you to create an
identity through yourself here we allow
them to customize their color their
player emblem so that when they go
online I'm the little red smiley face
and so people see my red smiley face and
they go hey I remember that guy my clan
is a group of guys that form a team and
we may practice we may join one of these
matchmaking playlists it's hard to play
with people that are lower skill level
than you even if you really like them
because you're probably gonna lose more
often and you're not gonna have as much
fun if I play with Chris the two of us
are ranked together as a team and if
he's not as good as me that that's gonna
take down your rank the point is Chris
sucks
oh my god because Barney was really cool
things we're working on is integrating
the live functionality of the game with
the website and we're kind of going to
be a starting point for your your halo 2
bragging rights other really cool things
about map analysis or statistics on
pills and weapons killed with that we
may or may not get to depending on how
tired okay between now and September if
we do this right if we are able to
really pull off the engine and xbox live
and the social community it's going to
destroy everything else that's out there
there is something so in magic it's like
being an athlete in a sporting event the
rush that you get when you're about to
win and your heart starts going boom
boom boom boom you know you're gonna
just almost get it to score and then
somebody Snipes you from the corner jump
up and scream and throw your controller
down you hate it but you love it and
you've got a play again
you